---
title: Lab - Self Supervised Learning
lecture: ssl
summary: MSc course with short research projects exploring self-supervised
  learning techniques for visual representation learning
---
In this course, you will work on small research projects in teams of 2. As course introduction, we will discuss the most relevant papers together in the group.

In the final session of the course, all project outcomes will be presented in a poster session.

## Lecture Dates

The lecture will be mixed between virtual and in-person meetings. In-person meetings take place in the computer science building (Friedrich-Hirzebruch-Allee 8).

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| First Meeting | tbd, 10.15 - 11.45 | room 0.042 |
| Paper Discussions | tbd, 13.15 - 14.45 | room 0.042 |
| Mid-Term Presentations | tbd, 10.15 - 11.45 | room 0.042 |
| Final Poster Presentations | tbd | tbd |

## Possible Projects

Students can either choose from proposed projects in the first lecture or may propose their own projects if they fit into the course context.

As an example for course projects, possible topics include:

*   Contrastive Learning for Visual Representations
*   Masked Image Modeling and Reconstruction
*   Self-Supervised Learning for Video Understanding
*   Self-Supervised 3D Representation Learning
*   Multi-Modal Self-Supervised Learning


## Course Material

The slides from the initial lecture and any other additional course material will be made available closer to the course start date.

## Workstations

For this course we provide two Linux workstations in room 0.039. You can go to this lab room and use the workstations locally, or you can login with your CS account at `ssh <cs account>@rpllab1.rpl.uni-bonn.de` and `ssh <cs account>@rpllab5.rpl.uni-bonn.de`.

These workstations are shared. You can use them as access terminals, to debug code, download datasets, visualize data, etc. Please make sure to not interfer with each other's data and workspaces and don't change the system libraries. All heavy compute should be done on the cluster.

## Questions

For any questions regarding this course, please contact [blumh@uni-bonn.de](mailto:blumh@uni-bonn.de).
